Q1: (c) Ill be honest, this got a little abstract for me to track. But as much as I could, C seems like a good answer, but if I need a more intuitive understanding of what that looks like in practice to answer future questions, we are gonna have to slow down and explain it to me again in a different way.
Q2: (b) Also, on the 3rd note you mentioned about the number of rules increasing leading to fewer and fewer being followed as focus is split. This is a pretty big detail that I already knew but it's worth pinning for keeping in mind with all decisions as well as maybe future planning, but some things that help include heavy co-related terms. For example, when prompting a music generation AI for a song style, many people are addicted to things like listing guitar style and BPM and music theory desires and things of that nature, however, after having generated thousands of songs myself, I have found that one really accurate micro genre term where songs in that microgenre already carry 90% of the details you want on average does 10 times more for significantly less tokens of style details to focus on and then you can add other nuances to get the last 10% by making sure you ONLY discuss what would almost never show up in that micro genre or is at least not a genre specific norm. The same thing can happen for rules. There may be key words that overwhelmingly co-pull the model weights to alot of the other same terms on the subject and that can reduce the amount of literal rules having to get applied. BUT we would want to experiment on it. Like seeing how many rules can be followed, and if a term co-pulls to multiple rules, are there some anyways that a worth giving an extra push but adding them specifically? These things are all worth thinking about and dont in any way negate choosing (b) here, but bears on all decisions that rely on this kind of theory.
Q3: I definitely agree with with (a)... I worry a littel bit that a model might focus on a wrong type of bug and then read right past the type that we WANT to find because its focused on unhappy path unsupported iput edgecases, but if you are saying the evidence says both get found and then we let a review verifier look through and rate what kind of bugs each of them are seperately, then I suppose (a) is the best option. Otherwise, it would maybe be a SLIGHT psuh without a boundary in the brief to say we are especially wary of certain types of bugs. But I can honestly see a lot of headache that comes from that. Also, this is maybe unrelated, but seeing as we are gonna be working on our review process templates and what just general process stuff in general here a little later, its worth noting for later that right now the spec-reviewer is mostly sent looking for bugs, but interrogate has a much wider spectrum of things it is looking for which include but are not limited to security issues. BUT even the vendored Interrogate script somewhat leads the witness so Im thinking we are probably working towards a whole review system of our own either in a ticket we have already planned or in a new ticket that is coming later because review may well be the absolute most important step in AI Driven development and it also is one that I feel can use the most work and can get the most help from the stuff we are discussing now. AI Review studies all celebrate having no false positives, but then conveniently ignore that their system misses 50% of known planted bugs at the same time. This sounds like a need for multiple passes and better briefs and process and all the stuff we are talking about here. 
Q4: You didnt tell me what the 5 conflicting mechanisms WERE. So what you say makes sense, but I can't compare it to what currently exists to make an educated choice in affirming you.
Q5: Budget is a question that is answered differently based on mode. In Safety Mode (or whatever the first mode we made was called) there is no budget that should ever effect process. Budget is only ever used in the factory to measure what happened after the fact to go looking for ways to optimize. Budget in Eco Mode is a little more available to think about, but ONLY after a user sets a budget constraint and that budget constraint should be then clarified more as a point of principle so that before it gets written in a brief as a binding constraint, the user can clarify the severity of priority the budget should have on a process. Ive seen a model take a suggestion that a change might cut context token burn in half and then because the ticket was about a budget focused thing, it made the token burn getting cut in half a requirement of the ticket to close and then the change didnt have such a drastic affect and so it started rewritting all of its architecture and cutting required steps in order to force the token burn down. It made that requirement without asking me how important the token budget was. I would have told it it was a prediction from a single anecdotal case and not binding. So in Eco and Let It Rip mode, any budget constraints should be interviewed first to determine how important it is. And in Let It Rip mode, there is a second budget that ALSO becomes important which is Wall Clock. Let It Rip mode is being designed for the wall clock, BUT its the same as what I said about token budget in Eco Mode, just because im setting an overarching goal, doesnt mean a model needs to be told about it and doesnt mean that it overrides my other goals like setting specific processes that are required. So any time a token or wall clock budget is maybe getting communicated to a reader, it should be interviewed to see exactly how binding it is. There isnt a set heuristic, but we should fail open here. As in, when in doubt, DONT COMMUNICATE BUDGET. If you think it is super important but cant stop to ask, then it is information not boundary, and if its communicated as binding it must have been user approved.